VITESS-GUI
This graphical user interface (GUI) helps to input and edit
the parameters of a VITESS simulation.

Starting from scratch you select modules of the simulation pipe,
beginning with the first module. Upon selection the input parameters
of that module appear.
Each parameter has a <blabel> in bold characters. If you stay with the mouse
on that label you get some lengthier explanation for that parameter
in the output window. If you need even more information you might select a module
from the Help / Modules menu. HTML text becomes shown from your browser,
which becomes started automatically.

Parameters may be input textually (of type integer, float, string ...) in the light blue
entry fields, or by selecting a radio button. Some filenames may be input
by browsing.
Without change, the parameter entries appear in the main Xcontrol window 'here'.
If you like it select the other menu entry 'separate' to edit this modules´
parameters in a separate window, or leave these parameters invisible by now
by selecting 'hidden'.
The simulation pipe happens to become longer, if you select a new module
for the last entry, which by default is the dummy entry indicated with '-----'.
If you need to insert a new module e.g. between the first and the
second module, press the button labelled with a down array left to
Module 1. If you do not need a module, press the button labeled with
a big X beneath.

In any situation you may check if your inputs are formally correct by
pressing the <bCheck>-button. The Xcontrol message window will show the
error, and your computer will beep, if something is unacceptable.
Otherwise the pipe command is to be seen.
By pressing the <bStart>-button you actually start the simulation.
The pipe is active how long it takes to complete the programs.
Stop the simulation prematurely with the <bStop>-button. A timeout
(changeable by option menu, default 28800 seconds or 8 hours)
sets an upper limit for the execution time.

To simulate an instrument with some few parameters changed you may
File / "Generate Series"
1. specify the number of iterations and which parameters to change;
   this is most easily done by clicking on labels of parameters;
2. input values; the first iteration has default values as set
   in modules; if you input a delta value and press RETURN all n-th
   values will be v1 + n*delta, v1 being the first value, n >= 2,
3. execute that series or save a tcl command file to be executed
   without GUI support.

With the <bExit>-button you terminate VITESS.

If you save all GUI settings with the 'Save Instrument' button of the
'File' title menu to a file, you may re-use these parameters later with
the 'Load Instrument' action.
'Save as Command' stores the pipe command to a text file.
'Save as Grid-Command' is meant to generate a Grid Engine command file.

1d or 2d plots of simulation results come with the 'Plot file'
and '2d Plot file' buttons of the 'File' title menu.
Monitor output files may be plotted at the end of a simulation,
if this has been chosen by a select button.

Help on modules comes with the corresponding buttons of the 'Help' menu.
The help system allows to search for keywords.
