VITESS simulations using cluster computer facilities
----------------------------------------------------

VITESS instruments, simulated as pipes, do fit well to single
computer nodes, and with thread parallelisation we may use many
cores, too.

But when it comes to clusters of computers things get complicated.
- Cluster batch systems come in many flavours.
- We may not split a single pipe to be executed on separated nodes
 easily, and do not gain much doing so.

A main idea here is too achieve better Monte Carlo statistics by 
slicing the original random trajectories. A naive idea would be 
to split the series N(1),...,N(k) of neutron trajectories to sub-series
N(1)..N(k/n), N(1+k/n)..N(2*k/n),  ...  N(1+(n-1)*k/n)..N(k)
if we have n nodes. But PNRGs (Pseudo Random Number Generators) use a state,
and you may not easily skip the first k/n invocations.
A better idea is to execute n pipes, each pipe with a different
PRNG seed. (Internally each module for pipe i gets the same seed,
but seeds are different for different pipes.)
This assumes that the PRNG is good in the sense that the outcome
of a simulation with seed 1 is stastically independent of a simulation
started with seed 2. (We may _not_ prove that; We know for sure that
starting two pipes with the same seed would not help.)

The main obstacle here is that we must combine the results of n pipes.
This would mean to concatenate output files with trajectories, if
the result is these trajectories. In reality you are mostly interested
in _monitored spectra of modules_.
   (Of course it may be worth to produce a file with trajectories,
   and then use this trajectory file as input for many sub-simulations.
   This is typically done when splitting the instrument pipe at a point,
   to which no more parameter variation is of interest, and then to
   use this for interactive simulations as input, varying parameters
   at the end of the instrument / pipe.
   A point here is that is to use cluster parallelization to produce a big
   file with trajectories needs to copy and concatenate big
   files, meaning much I/O. One may batch-produce a file with trajectories
   here, when you loose many in some modules, like a cascade of guides,
   and only few reach the final module.)
These spectra come in module-specific formats, and we have no
general description here. The GUI does not know much about files
a module uses, just if 
 - it is editable
 - resides in the parameter directory
 - must be readable.

To start a cluster job we have to prepare a batch job command file.
This jobfile should be in a language the cluster nodes understand,
which probably is Linux or some UNIX variant.
A first template to do this is the .grd output when exporting an
instrument to a grid file.
The grd file is a /bin/sh file which contains the pipe command.
Pathes for binaries and parameter directory are shell variables in the
pipe command. Individual module log files are concatenated after
pipe execution.

If we want to start jobs on a cluster, we have to know more, as we
- must not execute pipes using the same file names concurrently
- may be have to copy input files to the target system first, and
 transfer results back.

A first template to do this was the script TOOLS/grid_command.pl which
takes a grd file to be executed on a cluster at HZB, concatenating
neutron trajectories of pipes executed in parallel. It supports the
situation on the dirac cluster, where the cluster control node sees NFS directories of
client Linux PCs where VITESS is installed, and compute nodes see /home, 
where the working directory should be.

You call grid_command.pl with a grd file as input, tell it where VITESS binaries
are to be found, and which root directory to use for work directories, and
how many pipes to start.
The script then does
1. a Create the work directory if necessary.
   b Under that create tempory work directories for each pipe instance.
2. Copy all input files to  directories, copy VITESS binaries to the work root
   if necessary.
3. Generate a batch command file.
4. Submit n jobs with that batch commmand file.
   Doing a job means to cd to a specific work directory, and start a pipe
   with a specific PRNG seed. 
5. Wait for completion of all jobs.
6. Concatenate log files to a single log file in the parameter director, if requested.
7. Merge spectra to result files in the parameter directory. (not yet done)
8. Remove all temporary directories created in step 1.

(This assumes the parameter directory is visible on the execution nodes.)

To improve this, that is to restrict step 2 to copy input files only, and to enable step 7 above,
we need more detailed information about module files.
First of all we need to have _all_ files in the parameter directory.
Files used for input and output are a bad idea.
(The GUI may enforce strict parameter directory file names.)
The new script gridrun looks for all parameter directory file names
in the pipe command, and if such a file exists, copies it to the working temporary directory.
This may be good enough, as we might just copy old output files, too.

If it comes to spectrum result files, we need to know the type and size
of the spectrum.
The script looks for new files in temporary directories, which correspond
to -$P/<filename> in the pipe command, and then do some heuristic like
if its ascii text and has
- 2 columns, its a mon1D file (x, count)
- 4 columns, it is a monitor file (pos, count, xxx stdev, count traj)
- many (>16 ?) columns its a mon2D file
  matrix format 0
    first line: x bins
    y *
       monitor, x * count
  x y z format
    first line #x y z
    y * 
      x *
      x,y,count

Any other file format will be ignored.

In detail this improvement involves

2. Identify all -$P/<filename> names in the pipe
   (Doublettes may be errors, but also ok for input files used from different modules;
   we are not able to distiguish these cases here.)
   for each <filename>
     if <filename> exists in the parameter directory, copy it to temporary directories
     store the file time
   
7. Merge spectrum results:
   for each <filename>
     if it exists in a temporary directory
       if its file time is newer than the stored file time, or the file did not exist before
          if it's a text file
             try to merge all files from temporary directories to one result file
   Merging spectrum files means to sum counts, and may be check if other values are equal.
   The spectrum type is determined by heuristic:
   - special comment lines as header?
   - number of columns when the first line is split after reduction of white space
   Fail silently, if the spectrum type is not known / supported.

Controlling the cluster job with the new script gridrun.pl 
----------------------------------------------------------

The original version of grid_command.pl was meant to run in a command tool / xterm,
all the time from preparing the job files, then to start the batch jobs, until
everything has been finished.
This may be inconvenient, as this meta job may take a long time.
If the client xterm is shut down for whatever reason before the meta job finished, it
may be hard do steps 5 to 8, that is to see if batch jobs have finished, and merge the results.
For this it is better to store the state of execution and let a script know modes.

First you call the perl script gridrun like before, but it returns after step 4, showing a meta job number.
Meta job numbers start with 1 and correspond to state files ~/.vitess/metajob<run-nr>

A call
gridrun -i
or gridrun with no more parameters informs about meta jobs in general. A meta job may be 
- waiting for completion
- completed, but not merged
- completed and finished

gridrun -i 5
tells just about meta job 5

gridrun -f
tries to finalize all completed, but still not merged, meta jobs.

gridrun --abort 5
aborts meta job 5 if still waiting for completion

gridrun --delete 5
deletes all information about meta job 5, aborting it before, if still active


The work directories for gridrun are ~/.vitess/wdir<run-nr> and the temp. sub directories
for jobs are  ~/.vitess/wdir<run-nr>/<job-nr>

gridrun works with the Sun Grid Engine (SGE) and ssh remote command execution.
SGE allows batch jobs to be queued with the qsub command, qstat informs of job states, ...
The user has to wait until jobs are executed, which may take days. You have no control
whether two jobs are run in parallel, or one after the other.

For tighter control of execution you may use ssh remote command execution.
This assumes you have pre-shared ssh keys for node access.