VITESS 2.3
----------

New FEATURES are:
'Source Code'
In this version the source code is released for most of the modules.

'Data set'
The data set that is transfered from one module to the following is extended
to allow for a better ray-tracing (see below). Additionally a 'color' is added,
which is supposed to be used to mark special trajectories by the user.
(Thanks to the McStas team for allowance to take this idea.)

'Ray tracing'
Saving the identity of the neutron trajectories allows for tracing back of the
paths of the neutrons arrived at a certain position in the instrument.
By starting the simulation a second time, one can, for example, follow the
probability distribution changes of only these special trajectories.
To do that, you can for instance use the output of module 'writeout' as the
'raytracing file', which has to be given as input file in the module 'source'.
For all trajectories in this list, a file is generated, in which the modules
write data about this trajectory. Every user has to decide, what to write out;
default is: time, y-value, z-value, color. The function 'WriteTraceLine' in
'init.c' has to changed to write different data.
(All executables have to be built after the change.) 


New MODULES are:
'sample_s_q' 
is made to simulate a S(Q) sample.

'rotating_field'
This module simulates spin precessions in a rotating magnetic field.

'sm_ensemble'
This module simulates an ensemble of super mirror (SM) planes.


New TOOLS are:
'MirrorCoating'
With this tool it is possible to generate a reflectivity file for the guide or
bender module from a few input data. (See description within 'MirrorCoating.c'.)

'DirectView'
is to decide whether the bending of a guide is enough to prevent direct view.

'GenerBatch'
is made to generate a batch file for a series of measurements.

'Define Direction'
Converts between direction definitions in VITESS: Cartesian, Spherical, Euler.      
Performs Euler frame rotations as next option.

'Standard Deviation'
Calculates standard deviation ("sigma") of a one-dimensional distribution:
SD = <(x - <x>)2> to characterise the width of a signal.

