VITESS 3.2  Release Note
------------------------

Major upgrades:
---------------

The MONOCHROMATOR module has been upgraded. Choose the modules ma_flat_new, ma_focus_new and ma_focus_dat_new to use the new module.
The extra simulation run to determine the correct normalisation has become obsolete. It is now also possible to have a stack of monochromators. 
The old module is kept in this version for backward-compatibility.
 
The module SOURCE now includes the ESS pancake moderator (only for discrete moderator height values: 0.5cm, 1cm, 1.5cm, 3cm, 5cm, 7cm, 10cm, 12cm). Time focusing is available to improve the efficiency of simulations of instruments comprising a pulse shaping chopper that creates one or several short pulse(s).


Further improvements:
--------------------

The modules GUIDE, GUIDE_IDEAL and BENDER now accept m-numbers as input in addition to the mirror reflectivity files.

The module SM_ENSEMBLE accepts a new simplier input file format. Attenuation in Silicon or Sapphire substrate is described by
empirical functions derived from real data.

The module DETECTOR can handle flat detector elements with a normal to the surface that does not point to the sample position.

The modules SAMPLE_Powder and SAMPLE_SINGCRYST can now support custom structure files as long as the format is specified.

GUI:
----

Context menu of the component list changed. Now it is possible to disable modules for the current simulation run. 
Visualisation is now available for individual modules without the need of visualising the whole instrument.
Output files created in different simulations by the same monitor modules can now be merged including error propagation.
Gnuplot window can now be killed in case of incorrect plots to allow Gnuplot a fresh restart.


Optimization:
-------------

The optimization framework now works with gridrun to run the optimization simulations on a Linux cluster.
Swarm algorithm added to the optimization framework. 


Files and examples:
-------------------

Example instruments have been updated and are now in the FILES/EXAMPLES folder. New Vitess files with models of real instruments are also included. 
There were several exercises added to the new FILES/TUTORIALS folder that were used during the Joint Vitess and McStas Workshop in Berlin in September 2013 (including solutions).

Mirror reflectivity files have been reorganized.


Bug fixes:
----------

Detector: Efficiency of gaseous materials
Filter: OR mode working again
Visualization: Circular moderator shape is now visible

(Dez 4 2013, subversion  537)
