VITESS 2.10  Release Note
-------------------------

Helper threads:
---------------

Some modules may use helper threads to speed up simulations on system with multi
core CPUs. If you select 1 to 8 helper threads in the main GUI window, these
modules will start helper threads:
source, chopper_fermi, polariser_sm, guide, and sm_ensemble.

Packages:
---------

Composing instruments is made easier with packages. You may store parts of an
instrument, like a series of complicated guides, to a package, to be re-used
later.
The maximum number of modules is set to 40 now.

Execution Modes:
----------------

When you simulate an instrument with slightly different parameters you may use
two execution modes which help to compare results:
"save old"
In that mode every plain file of the parameter directory is saved to a save_<n> subdirectory
before execution of the command pipe. After pipe execution VITESS tells which files have been
changed in contents and lists those files in the save_<n> subdirectory;
duplicates in the subdirectory are removed.
"copy results"
All files except the log file in the parameter directory, which have a modification date later
than the simulation start time, are copied to the Results subdirectory after finishing the simulation,
the file name prepended with the creation data like
Results/20100927-160057.a.dat for a file a.dat created on the 27 th of September in 2010.

Compression:
------------
A general menu bar option "Output compression" allows to compress data

none          120 byte per neutron trajectory, default, 100%
nodebug       strips trace information normally not used, reducing size to 63%
float         additionally reduces double values to float, with almost no effect
              on the further outcome; the binary file size shrinks to approx. 40%
gzip          lossless, but more CPU intense compression, approx. 55%
nodebug+gzip  reduction to approx. 45.8%
float+gzip    reduction to approx. 29%

VITESS modules read data files of nodebug or float compression directly, compressed
input files with a .z or .gz extension are read with the help of the program gzip.
gzip.exe is provided with the VITESS distribution for Windows, and gzip is assumed
to be installed under Linux.


New modules:
------------
lenses
mirror_elliptical
mon2_kdiv
mon2_rdiv
runtime
beamstop
